# gruyere-test-demo

## **Details of original task**

Go to https://google-gruyere.appspot.com/start and after “Agree&Start” you’ll be provided with an instance to use and 
the url should look like - “https://google-gruyere.appspot.com/XXXXXXXXXX/” where XXXXXXXXXX is an instance id

What we would like you to do:

**1.** Implement the following automated tests;

 _Check that you can sign up for a new account_

 _Check that you can create a new snippet_

**2.** Implement one other automated tests that you feel is relevant.

**3.** Perform any manual testing you feel is relevant and keep appropriate notes.

What we would like to see:
Take notes detailing your testing process.
We are interested in your test design and gathering of information for this application e.g. Why did you do this test?
Why did you choose to automated this test?
You are free to use any tools/programming language to achieve your goal but please let us know what the tools are.
If we don’t know what tool you used then we can’t review what you did.

At the end, please send the following:

All code that you wish to submit for review.

Any notes that you would like us to review.

Any bug reports you might have produce


## **Task outcomes and notes**

1 - I have implemented the requested tests (new account sign up & snippet creation).

Tests are implemented in Ruby utilising the Selenium-Webdriver and Cucumber frameworks to automate and run the tests.

**NOTE** User specific parameters required for test functionality should be located in a file in the root of the project 
called '.env' (which can be generated by copying the file default.env into this filename).

* Tests can be run from command by calling cucumber from project root.
* Test results and errors will be logged in 'gruyere-test-demo.log' which will be created in project root.

2 - I have added valid and invalid login tests. The former functionality was required as part the snippet creation test 
so this represents a quick win.
I also added the tests for snippet deletion as this functionality is required for test teardown.

I added tests for file upload because I have never attempted this before and, on the face of it, it might appear that 
this could not be done with a browser automation framework alone.

Many other tests could be easily automated including the validation of profile color changes and the presence of icons.

3 - The site's purpose is as a test bed for demonstrating (and providing fixes for) a number common web security flaws.
The site can be accessed as hosted or downloaded as a collection of source files and hosted locally.
As such, and in expectation that users may alter the source code to fix the flaws, the design of the site is very simple
with functionality limited to that required to demonstrate the existence of potential security flaws and possible solutions.

Users can create accounts and/or sign into an existing account. Against a user account, snippets (arbitrary strings that 
can include html tags) can be created and managed. Files can be uploaded to the site and subsequently accessed via a URL.
Account profiles for each user can be also be completed and the look of the site personalized.
In addition there are a number of fixed links to a 'Cheddar Mac' and 'Brie' homepages that contain a number of snippets
and links to a Google search results pages for the respective types of cheese.

Instructions for usage of the site in the demonstration of security flaws are are located at 'https://google-gruyere.appspot.com/'.
The information contained in these pages provides useful context for the design of the site and has implications for the 
design of both functional and non-functional tests.
This site cannot be accessed directly from the site when accessed as per the instructions above. For this reason I have
decided the information they contain are outside the scope of the tests described below. Had this task been set by a 
client I would have sought confirmation of the limitations of the scope of testing.

Functional tests would be required for the following;

* user creation
* the ability to access site with valid credentials
* correct username and password validation
* read-only access to certain site features if not logged in
* username change functionality
* password change functionality
* the ability to change the url accessed from the homepage and 'my site' links 
* the ability to upload and access files after the event
* the ability to change the icon (and see the icon displayed across all relevant pages)
* the ability to change the colour used to display certain elements given a valid value i.e. html color, hex etc.
* the ability to create, delete and display all snippets
* the ability to create, edit and manage private snippets
* validate the correctness of the links found under the Cheddar Mac and Brie profiles

Inputs are possible for snippet strings, username, password, icon and homepage url links, profile color as well as file 
upload paths.

Tests should be performed to validate the following;

* minimum and maximum string lengths
* character validation
* file upload size
* file upload type restrictions
* sensible default values assumed or warnings provided if invalid input provided

Non-functional testing should be informed by the purpose of the site and the size of the target audience. To this end 
there would be little point in conducting performance/load testing given the small anticipated user base and the 
small likelihood of many concurrent sessions. Equally commenting on security aspects like usernames and passwords being 
visible as query parameters is pointless given the sites was designed to highlight security flaws and multiple warnings 
are displayed to users not to use a password that might also be used to access other services.

## **Reporting issues**

Any issue raised as the result of testing should include the following

* Brief description of issue
* Component of AUT if such categorization is applied
* Testers assessment of severity of issue
* Outline of implications of issue for user, client or company
* Version(s) of OS of all system components i.e. client, application server, web server, database server etc.
* Type/version of device used (if appropriate)
* Version of browser (if appropriate)
* Version/branch of AUT
* Any other software incidental to discovery/characterisation of the issue i.e. tools, database
* Context of testing
* Steps required to reproduce issue including any relevant data sets, preconditions etc.
* Other relevant information i.e. is issue present in other combinations of OS, browser, version  or only reported combination
* Logs, screenshots or other supporting evidence that will provide clarity or help in finding cause of issue
